root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# touch mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmood
명령어 'chmood' 을(를) 찾을 수 없습니다. 다음 명령어로 시도하시겠습니까:
  deb chmodcoreutils의 명령어 ' (8.32-4.1ubuntu1)'
Try: apt install <deb name>
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod
chmod: 피연산자 빠짐
자세한 정보는 'chmod --help'를 입력하십시오.
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod 777 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod 644 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u+x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-rwxr--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u-x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u+x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u-x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u-w mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-r--r--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# 
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod u+x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-r-xr--r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod g+w mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-r-xrw-r-- 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# chmod o+x mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ls -l mydata.txt
-r-xrw-r-x 1 root root 0  5월  9 09:26 mydata.txt
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# ^C
root@shinjaesang-virtual-machine:~# 
